There are majorly two types of of languages
  1. Statically Types Languages. 
  2. Dynamically Typed Languages.
1. In Statically typed languages, The type of all the expressions and variables are already known by the time of compilation. 
2. In Dynamically Typed Language, The types of the variables and parameters are changing over the time. 

Java is statically typed language. 

Java has two catigories of Data. They are
  1. Primitive Data type. 
  2. Non Primitive Data type. 
  
1. Primitive Data type : They are only single values and have no special data types. 
  There are 8 types of Primitive Data types. They are : 
    1. boolean
    2. byte. 
    3. short. 
    4. int. 
    5. long. 
    6. float. 
    7. double. 
    8. char. 
Note : In java char is of 2 byte. In c/C++, we use ASCII characters and to represent all ASCII characters
        8-bits is enough. But in Java, we use the Unicode system. To represent unicode system 8-bit is not 
        enough to represent all characters so java uses 2 bytes for characters. 

2. Non-Primitive Data Types or Reference Data Types : These contain a memory address of variable values because 
                                                      reference types won't store the variable value directly in memory. 
   The examples of Non premitive data types are Strings, objects, arrays etc.
   
   Strings:
            It is defined s array of characters. Unlike in C/C++, Java strings are not terminated with NULL character
            Syntax of the String is:
            
            <String_type> <String_variable> = "<sequence_of_string>";
            
            
Now let's discuss two important terms of Java. 

1. Class:
          It is a user defined prototype from which objects are created. In general class declaration can include these
components, in order:
      1. Modifiers : A class can be public or has default access. 
      2. Class name : The name should begin with capital letter. 
      3. Super Class[If any] : Name of the classes parent[if any], preceded by the keyword "extends". A class can only extends
                                one parent class. 
      4. Interfaces[If any] : A comma seperated list of interfaces impplemented by the class, if any, preceded by the keyword 
                              implements. A class can implement more than one interface. 
      5. Body : Class body is surrounded by Braces {}. 
2. Object:
          It is the basic unit of OOP and represent real life entities. An object consistes of :
          
          1. State : It is represented by attributes of an object. 
          2. Behavior : It represents the methods of an object. 
          3. Identity : It gives the unique name to the object. 
          
          
          
          
          
Difference between Primitive and Non Primitive Data Types:

Primitive Data types:
1. Predefined Datatype. 
2. Stored in a stack. 
3. When changes are made in the copied variable, that change doesn't reflect in the original ones. 
4. They donot have NULL as default value. 
5. Examples are byte, short, int, long, char, float, double, boolean. 


Non Primitive Data types:
1. User defined datatypes. 
2. Reference variable stored in stack and actual value stored in heap. 
3. When changes made in the copied variable, that change reflects in the actual variable. 
4. They have Null as default value for reference variable. 
5. Examples are array, string class, interface etc. 


